You did the, those, those episodes on the game-changers the, uh, with James was,
and that was, it was fascinating to watch. Cause I, I watched that movie and,
you know,
nutrition is also like diet is such an important part of what we do to
ourselves that we, that we don't think.
And especially in a time of COVID where so many people, like you say,
like when you see what this does to people with type one diabetes or, or, uh,
w with other kinds of, uh, you know,
conditions that might be caused from either poor diet or lack of access to,
uh, no healthier options and things like that, you realize like,
we can put ourselves in a very vulnerable position.
Very vulnerable, but how we eat, Andrew Schultz had a really good point.
He said, this, this pandemic highlighted the vulnerabilities,
both in our economic system and in our health system,
like the way we are as human beings, what, who who's vulnerable,
the obese people, people with diabetes, older folks. I mean, it, it,
it highlights all these issues where, you know, we,
we really need to concentrate on for the future.
If you want more people to survive this, there is,
there are strategies that can be implemented. And we really,
we really need to talk to people about just being normal stuff,
being dehydrated,
being well-hydrated making sure you're not dehydrated well rested, um,
teach people,
meditation techniques is not hard to learn some breathing exercises that have
been actually proven to increase your immune function.
It's not hard to teach people about vitamin D and supplementing.
And if you can't go outside.
How do you get people then to take action?
Because here's the other thing you remember, like people's lives are hard.
You're dealing when you're talking about like what we talked about earlier,
like economic inequality, you know,
it's hard to go into an area where they feel like.
I don't know where my next meal is coming from and be like,
so here's what we're going to do.
We're just going to sit and breathe quietly for five minutes.
And everything's going to know it's a really difficult,
it's like hierarchy of needs. You know, how do you,
how do you work into the idea that those types of theories are
actually important to the betterment of like in the stability
of the larger part of their life when they're fighting so hard just to stay
afloat? Yeah.
It's a, that's an interesting point. And, uh, I think what you have to do is it,
it has to be, first of all, told by people who are doing it successfully.
So people that are doing it that like maybe were struggling with their immune
system and turned it around and got healthier.
Like those people are the ones that the people that are in a bad position right
now, they really respond to when it comes to,
there's an emotional connection with,
if you see some guy is on the cover of men's health magazine,
he's ripped and he starts talking about fitness. You're like,
get the outta here. I can't relate to you. I'm never going to look like that.
But if you see someone who is in the city,
the situation that you're in and they turned it.
Around, you already look like that.
Well, not me, but listen, I've been working out my whole life.
I've never stopped, but if someone is fat,
I'm talking from their perspective and they see some guy who's really thin and
chiseled,
then it's not going to make sense to them that they could ever be like that.
But if they see someone there's a lot of really fantastic photos and
Instagram and Facebook pages online,
where you can get inspiration from someone who actually stuck to a diet,
actually stuck to an exercise routine and then speaks really well about how much
it improved, the way they feel, their emotions, their depression,
all the aspects of their life. And that's,
I think one of the more like David Goggins is a great example that I use him all
the time because he's this incredibly inspirational guy who is a Navy
seal. And at one point in time, he was 300 pounds.
He was drinking milkshakes and he puts those pictures of himself on Instagram
all the time, just to let people know, Hey, I'm not some alien,
I'm a person who is weak, just like you. I was lazy, I got fat.
And then I figured out how to train my mind to be disciplined and I'd figured
out how to be happier.
And I think that that's really important for people to see that it's,
we're not in a static state,
we're all in a constant state of improvement and growth hopefully,
or deterioration if you're not careful.
But does that, you know,
the thing that I worry about those sometimes is similarly to
economic distress, does it make a person's health,
be a function of their Bertschi? Does it,
does it take something that is beyond a lot of people's control that?
Isn't that a little bit of like, imagine if you just pull your pants up, you,
you could do it. Like, no, it's not on the way.
No you're saying, but it's not it's I did this and I can show you how I did it.
And maybe you can do it too. That's what it is.
We don't have to look at every success is somehow or another.
They're thumbing in the face of people who can't achieve a similar goal,
but there are enough people out there that can,
that we should concentrate on that because I think it will have a significant
improvement on the overall health of us, again, as a community.
And I think this is really how we have to look at the United States and human
beings on earth. In general,
we have to look at each other as a bunch of people that could very well be
neighbors. We're, we're a community.
And if you're my friend and you were fat and you were willing to listen and I
used to be fat too. And I can tell you, Hey man, this is what I did.
I stopped drinking.
Well, there are people that are there. There are people that are Jim. I mean,
I understand the point there and I'm look,
I'm an advocate for plant based stuff. I think that's a healthy way to do it.
Uh, but obviously eating is such a personal experience that I hesitate to ever,
uh, impart that in any other way.
But I just feel like
sometimes for people,
it's almost more debilitating for that mentality of
this is how you do it.
You just got to get your together and go through this way.
I do think you have to present more options,
but know that it's maybe more complicated and people can be overweight or
whatever and be healthy. It's not necessarily, uh,
you know, something that's corrosive to them. But well.
It is though being overweight is necessarily corrosive.
It's not healthy for anybody.
It's less healthy than being at an optimal weight.
That's what's important. It gives you some sort of a burden,
whether that burden is sustainable is debatable. Maybe for some people,
it is for some people, it isn't look.
Some people can smoke until they're 90 and they're fine.
Other people get pancreatic cancer like Hicks and die in their thirties.
It depends wildly on the person,
but the idea that you can be fat and you can be healthy,
I think is a dangerous narrative because you're telling people, listen,
don't improve. You don't have to,
you can be healthy and be obese at the same time.
But the medical science does not really support that.
The more weight you lose up to a certain point, you know, but when you,
if you get to a healthy body mass, your body works better. It's really simple.
It doesn't tax your immune system as much. It doesn't tax your heart as much.
It's better for you. It's better for your joints. Um,
it doesn't mean that we should ignore people that are overweight and you know,
and pretend that, you know, they're, they're not worthy or they're not,
they're not good.
Definitely. It is.
I have a very emotional reaction to that because I feel protective.
You're nice over people. And I just, yeah, I think, yeah.
It's great. That's a good thing. No, it is.
It's the reason why you're thinking like this, because we're talking,
we're talking about people doing well and you're like,
what about the people who can't do well,
let's reach out to them and offer them an olive branch. And yeah, I get it, man.
I get it. You're right. You're right. Look,
I have very good friends that are morbidly obese and they don't want to listen.
And there's nothing I can do. I just hug them. And I see them. And you know,
I hope that one day they come to grips with it and they change,
but they don't have to, you know, you,
you live this life for a certain amount of time.
And if you want to live it eating cake and drinking beer, that's you,
you do whatever you want. We're all on the end. In the end,
we're all going to be in the ground. It's all pointless.
Wait a minute.
We just had an hour long conversation about the optimistically taking this
country and turning it around and got very fatalistic all of a sudden, well.
That's true. The end in the end, we're all dying. That's how that story ends.
We're all dead. So the story, what I don't want people to do is suffer.
And I want people to feel better while they're alive.
And I think that's something that's missed in the message of health improvement.
So like,
you will actually have a better experience on earth and it'll help you mitigate
stress. It'll help you. Uh,
it'll help you have better relationships because you won't be burdened down with
a lot of like anxiety and stress that literally comes from a physical release of
energy. I look at the body like a battery,
and I think that some people's batteries just overflowing with corrosive
material because they never exert it. They never blow it out in a battery.
A battery is a bad analogy, but there's,
there's a certain amount of physical requirement.
I think your body has to ha has. And if you don't give that, that body,
that physical exertion,
it doesn't feel good where we've evolved to hunt and gather and build
homes and survive from predators.
And we carry around all the burdens in our body of this past.
And there's no getting around that and you can either deny it and just deal with
all the tension or you can exert your energy,
find some way to calm your mind and live a life. That's better.